I suppose since you are taking this class that you believe,
at least to some extent,
that writing skills are important or you want to better understand
why everyone else says they should be important.
Well, I'm here to tell you that they are extremely important.
Now that you have the additional responsibility of your team,
your writing skills and in fact, all of your communication skills,
verbal, interpersonal,
etc., are critical and essential for the success of your team,
yourself, and your organization.
Now what does Johnny have to do with this?
Well, Newsweek published the article, "Why Johnny Can't Write,
" claiming that the U.
S.
educational system was creating a generation of semi-literates as evidence of
the poor quality of student writing and let me tell you,
in my many, many years of experience in management and leadership roles,
the quality of writing from my beloved software engineers can be
actually quite poor and leave much to be desired.
You see, in a way,
technology has made everyone in the workplace a writer
and writing is a highly visible skill.
When you send an email or other written communication,
it is out there for people to see.
It reflects on you,
it reflects on your team and it also reflects on your management.
So it's essential to get it right, hence, welcome to this module.
Okay, communication.
With emails, notes, letters, texts, tweets,
you name it,
most people spend a fair amount of time at work
communicating via the written word.
So whether you are messaging a colleague,
writing to a manager, crafting a meeting agenda,
writing skills can improve or hinder your career.
Basically,
writing skills make a difference in how you come across
in your professional environment.
That's why they're so important.
Next, credibility.
People with good writing skills are generally seen as more credible.
Credibility is trustworthiness as well.
Think to yourself how you would interpret an email from a colleague
that was filled with typos and grammatical errors.
At best,
he was negligent in that he didn't even proofread his
message or use Spell-check or worse, he or she comes across as less intelligent,
maybe less capable.
Next is success.
Better writers tend to get what they need or are asking
for and are perceived as more competent and more
intelligent than their counterparts.
It's just the way it is.
Today,
your reputation and your success in business are increasingly
dependent on your ability to write well.
Okay,
some of the best consulting companies in the world
agree with this; let's see who that is.
Okay, here's the quote.
"By writing well, you can stand out from the crowd.
There is too much poor writing in the business world.
" -- Pricewaterhousecoopers So for the success of your team,
your customer and yourself, you want to stand out from the crowd.
Be recognized for your team's ideas and accomplishments,
and leverage this to greater career opportunities.
Now what I mean by career opportunities,
I don't just mean say, a promotion to a manager.
You may not even want that beyond your leadership role,
but also maybe to other key roles like chief architect,
project manager, maybe a senior business analyst,
for example.
A lot of other career opportunities may be available to you because
you are recognized and you're credible by others.
Now let's cover some guiding principles to improve your writing. That is Michael's 5 C's.